# Ames-Housing-Cost-Predictor

Problem Statement:

Hello, my name is Robert Huey and I am a previous divorce lawyer hired at a realestate firm to help couples find homes in Ames, Iowa. Given the that the housing market has gotten more expensive with inflation, it does make sense that we are seeing an uptick of joint homeowners in the market. By using my previous knowledge in the space and the data provided to me from the firm, I have come up with some graphs and models that will help prospective couple homebuyers have an easy and enjoyable experience to pick something that will be meant to last.

Summary
Before we go into the presentation of the data let us explain the contents of this workbook. In total we have 5 total notebooks going in order of how they should be digested.These notebooks will be contained in the "code" folder. The first one will go over the cleaning of the data provided by deleting any columns that were missing too many values and combining others that could be used for future inference like, square footage. The second notebook will go over some exploratory data graphs to find different types of correlation in the dataset to be able to further my research and create my models. This then leads to the pre-processing and modeling notebook which focuses a lot more on taking the data we scrounged from the previous notebooks to start to do modeling predictions. In this notebook we can see the different columns chosen and the different effects each one had on price from the coefficients provided. This also allowed us to infer about the effectiveness of the models tested by looking at various train test splits and R2 scores. Leaving the last portions of the workbook to be focused on the final model that I chose from the pre-processing notebook, and a Kaggle submission to see where I stacked among the other realtors in the area.

The other two folders for datasets and images will contain the following. Datasets will contain the columns and rows used for the data of the project to come to its conclusions. The images folder will hold the graphs used for my presentations that were exported from the notebooks.

Conclusion
From everything we saw in the workbook it became easy to surmise that kitchens play a huge part in the costs in Ames. This can be from either buying a home or selling one the kitchen quality made a huge difference in the cost of a home. Other portions like quality and condition factored into the home buying process as well but not as much as I would think in the general scheme of things. The best way for couples to aim for buying a home here will be to follow 3 simple steps. Pick the neighborhood, house type, and then see how much wiggle room is left in the budget to focus on what add-ons they tell me to be important. Once we have those simple things it becomes a lot easier to send them homes that will become a forever decision or a good investment.
